# Gum

After locating the river on Google Maps, I started to walk, but what satellite view doesn’t reveal is that the stretch of freeway that bridges the river does not have a sidewalk, —

I’m walking, walking and walking and then sometimes sprinting just because I can, and then walking and walking, sometimes on dirt roads and sometimes pressed against highways. Cars act like they are surprised to see me. And then I had to stop walking. There was no longer a way forward, the bridge being impenetrable for pedestrians, but I had reached the river, so I turned left, traveling alongside the bank. Somehow, I’m still shocked by the measured hostility of the city. I try to sidestep it as best as I can.

My friends and I, we move around the city with nothing on our backs, nothing to tie us down. Our shoes were made for distance. My friends and I are fluid. We move like water, we hop turnstiles.

Sometimes we move like syrup.

We mesh together, the city presses us together, and at the end of the day we end up with other people’s sweat sticking to us like cobwebs. —

We share fragments of meals and we say goodbyes, —

And I return alone to my room of precision to fill it with what remains of my day. (A couple of receipts and a stick of gum). Walking being a process of both shedding and accumulation, I try my best at the former. I think, perhaps if I shed everything that surrounds me, being left with nothing, I will be nobody. If I keep this up everyday, I will have nothing, and I will be nothing but me, Ur-me, the earliest, primordial me. Me as sludge, opaque, but a pure sludge, a sludge only recognizable by myself.

I pop the gum in my mouth. It’s disgusting and warm from my pocket, so I spit it out.