# Teeth

I should go—I’ll walk home, I’ll rest my body in white bedding. And in the morning the sunlight will wake me up. It will glow through the thin curtain. But at night, the only source of light is the streetlamp outside the window. When my eyes adjust, I’m amazed I can see everything in the room, albeit in a dark, desaturated haze. Night vision is black-and-white vision. No cones, only rods.

Line square dot cross. Star, asterisk. The sky is grey and the streetlamp through branches creates a star, cross.

In my ears is the sound of the ocean. I’m not sure where it is coming from but it feels like the whole room is humming. Then that sound is suddenly replaced with sharp tinnitus. Yes, in the morning, the sun will wake me up, but my jaw will inevitably be sore, my teeth clenched through the night, making clicks like texting noises. And yes, I’m familiar with that blue glow of screens, under the covers, like when I was six and my GameBoy was my life, my world. Those hours spent under those covers, mashing buttons and breathing the limited, humid air inside the cocoon of sheets. I would have to poke my head out intermittently. I remember that feeling of the crisp air on my cheeks. At night I had to play games silently. When I played during the day, those game sounds became something to savor, even through that tinny speaker, through that sunburst-shaped arrangement of holes. It sounded like light shattering. Or crystals forming. Thank you, whoever composed those sounds. I’m turning these sounds around in my head right now, viewing them from all angles, something to soothe me while I grind my teeth at night.

I worry about the four wisdom teeth growing in my mouth. I can’t see or feel them, but I know that, eventually, I’ll have to schedule the operation to remove them. I’ll have to schedule my life around those four teeth. I get the feeling that my life isn’t my own. Sometimes I feel like nothing more than the sum of my personal connections. So I’ll live for those people. If my life was solely mine, I’m not sure I’d know what to do with it anyway, although that emptiness of purpose is also enticing. It might be what they call freedom. But that freedom might also be the false guise of this lonesome land, this land of dust, this field of grain.