# Father’s Day

A couple of days ago, my friend told me that he had to be home for Father’s Day dinner.

“Father’s Day dinner.” The concept sounded like a joke, so overtly Rockwellian, like the premise of an episode of a multi-cam family sitcom.

Like, oh, is this what white Americans do? Actively participate in every holiday that happens to show up on my iCalendar? The most that my family does every third Sunday of June is that everyone fires off a cursory “Happy Father’s Day” message on the family WeChat thread, and then Dad replies with a “Thank you, love you all.” There’s a tenderness to that, for sure, but that tenderness doesn’t come with any sort of activity, or event, or celebration, or fanfare.

Father’s Day. It isn’t even a real holiday. You don’t even get anything, like on Halloween or Christmas, and there aren’t even any associated foods, like on Thanksgiving. Although, come to think of it, the last time my family really celebrated any of these other holidays was probably when I was in sixth grade. At around that time I decided I was too old to go trick or treating, and my mom got tired of setting up our collapsible plastic Christmas tree every Christmas (which, despite the promise of being easy, convenient, and no- mess, still managed to litter dark green plastic “fir needles” all over the carpet). We also didn’t particularly like eating turkey. There were other available proteins.

So when my friend told me that his family actually made plans for Father’s Day, my genuine first reaction was shock. But then, when I was able to recognize that shock, I found myself beginning to lean into it. And this felt dishonest to me, and that was concerning. It was through this shock that I was to cast myself, at that moment, as the perpetual outsider. I feigned non-comprehension of the concept, but even though the idea of genuinely, whole- heartedly celebrating a holiday like Father’s Day was a little unfamiliar to me, it wasn’t as if I wasn’t able to understand it. That would be ridiculous to claim. And yet I found myself claiming this incredulity, as if to say, look at me and how non-American I am, how non-traditional I am. Look at me and my pragmatic, if a little joyless, immigrant upbringing. The only holiday my family really celebrated was Chinese New Year. The tradition wasn’t to get presents. We just got money. So much more convenient, honestly. But, as much as I sneer/pretend to sneer at the idea of national holidays, aren’t I an American anyways? Even if I don’t want to be? Is my escapism through this annoying, cynical self-alienation ultimately just cowardice? But also, fuck that, right? This city, this country, these people, this government. Why not just continue to try to escape? But then why do I still feel so uneasy about this escapism, justified or not?

After I went through this semi-diatribe to my friend, all he really had to say was, “Well, my dad’s birthday is like, the same weekend as Father’s Day, so we always just celebrate them together”.

“Oh,” I replied. “That makes sense, I guess.”