# The Farewell

Lulu Wang, American writer and filmmaker, recently came out with a film called The Farewell. In the film, Billie, the main character, travels to China to visit her grandmother, who has been given a terminal cancer diagnosis. But the whole family agrees that the diagnosis must be kept a secret from the grandmother. This secret is the main source of conflict for Billie, who believes that her grandmother has a right to know her own diagnosis. My older sister’s life weirdly resembles the life of Billie, the main character. They’re both Chinese-American women, millennials who live in New York, and both were born in China but emigrated to the U.S with their parents at a young age. Both Billie and my sister’s Chinese-speaking skills are pretty rudimentary.

My sister and I saw the movie separately. When I went to see it with another friend, who is also Chinese-American, I remembered joking, “Finally, a movie for us.” I was ready to feel so validated, and at the same time I was bracing myself for the inevitable discussions around visibility and representation. Leaving the theater, I did feel validated.

I found the film to be extremely specific and relatable, to the point where I was doubtful that anyone who didn’t have my experience would get anything from the movie. I wondered what the white people in the audience thought of the movie. There’s this one scene in particular, where the concierge of a newly (and rapidly) built hotel asks Billie whether she thought China was better or America was better. “They’re just different,” she responds. I cackled. I’ve had to field that question countless times, especially when I was younger, during a time when the privilege of immigrating to America was still uncommon enough to be notable. When I talked about it with my sister though, I was surprised to hear that she thought Billie’s character felt unrealistic.

“What are you talking about?” I was incredulous. “Billie is literally you.”

“I know,” she explained, “and that’s why I don’t buy that she was so close to her grandmother, to the point that keeping this secret would have caused her such emotional turmoil. Don’t you think that if it were us, and Mom told us not to tell Grandma that she was dying, we’d just be like, ‘Okay, sure’? I just don’t buy it because I literally have the same life experience as her, and I moved from China so young that I don’t even remember anything about it. And let’s be real, we have like, virtually no connection to our extended family. We never see them, and we never talk to them, and we don’t really have a reason to.”

Ah. There’s that psychic dislocation again. There’s that diasporic feeling again. Both Billie and my sister felt completely estranged from “the motherland.” The difference was that only one of them was broken up about it. And it’s true, the opening shots of Billie maneuvering through her gutsy, hustling, young-adult New York lifestyle did seem really sad. In one early scene, Billie attends a birthday party with a pointedly diverse-looking group of extras, and the camera slowly zooms in on her as she stares off into the distance, looking dejected and disengaged. In contrast, my sister, an Aries, thrives off of chaos, and loves living in New York.

After hearing my sister’s opinion, I saw the movie in a new light, in which it felt overly dramatized and pandering. I suddenly felt kind of embarrassed that I related so much, as if I fell into some sort of trap. Despite the social progress promised by media representation, I also had a disquieting sense that through the widespread release of this movie, I was becoming more “known” to a white audience, as if I was being... discovered? Or solved?

To some extent, media representation feels like a red herring. When Asian-Americans finally dominate all of Western pop culture, when our screens are saturated with us, what would that really change, and how would it help me? Do I need to feel “seen” by Hollywood? Why would I want you to see me?