# Marie Kondo

Marie Kondo’s promise of material fulfillment has become more like an uncontrollable habit for me. When I am stressed I clean my room, but it is not so much an act of tidying as it is an act of mentally cataloging and remembering each and every single one of my possessions, especially the objects that are out of sight, tucked away in suitcases, shoe boxes, milk crates, drawers. When I wake up and can’t bring myself to face the day, sometimes the only thing to do is spontaneously leap out of bed and pull object after object out of wherever they are stored, combing for things to discard or give away. It’s like reverse beach-combing, my eyes and hands a metal detector, but instead of trying to find treasure I am scanning for things that I could potentially convince myself to throw away, objects that I could convince myself have zero value to me anymore. I’m looking to turn things from treasure into trash. Every time I am able to throw something away, a short-lived feeling of liberation, short- lived but strong enough to always leave me searching for more. A series of little enlightenments.

It’s not even that I subscribe to the pop-cultural model of minimalism (there’s a Netflix documentary), that involves living with just, say, only one pair of raw Japanese denim jeans (to be worn everyday and washed once a year) and two casual button downs (to be worn in rotation). I don’t believe in that trite, holier-than-thou conviction that owning less objects equates to moral goodness, or a less problematic/codependent relationship with consumerism and global supply chains. No, for me, it’s more about this feeling of mild anxiety I have around objects that I can’t see. I’m afraid of forgetting them. It’s as if I am a baby without object permanence. Like, if I have a T-shirt tucked away somewhere, and I forget about it, and then months later I find it again, I will suddenly feel, all at once, this burden of a T-shirt, as if I had been carrying around the weight of this burden all these months without even realizing it. So when I came back to Providence after the summer break to complete my last year of college, I was confronted by all of these objects that I had been living without, that I had forgotten about. They all came at me with a heavy presence, all together and all at once.

These items were always there, but had just re-entered my life. They were outside of my immediate field of view, and now they were visible again. It’s like how in older video games, the rendering distance for objects in the background would sometimes be too close. A character might be walking around in some sort of open-world landscape, and things like trees or buildings might suddenly pop into view. They’ve always existed in the model of the world, but are only rendered when the character is within a certain radius of those objects. A large rendering distance results in smoother, more immersive gameplay, but is more computationally expensive. A short rendering distance can be jarring.

I wish I could stop wanting to have nothing. As my eyes scan through my room over and over again, Marie Kondo looms in my mind, this figure, this petite Japanese woman who comes into people’s lives and teaches them to be more present. But no matter how much I pare down my life, I remain dissatisfied. Sometimes I’m afraid that this feeling won’t end until I am left with nothing.