# Calendar

I’m trying to pinpoint why I feel uneasy about owning material goods. I think it’s because they start to feel too much like signifiers, as though through considering all of the objects I chose to surround myself with, someone could triangulate my exact mode of being.

When I think of myself as a racialized body, there is one object in particular that comes to mind, one particular signifier that marks me in this way—the calendars you get for free at Chinese grocery stores. Red and gold, cartoonish, printed on thin, cheap paper.
As a kid, I’ve always thought those calendars were so ugly. It was baffling to me that my mom always had one up — but, then again, it was free, so why not? I wasn’t embarrassed by it, exactly, or like, afraid that it would feel too foreign to any white friends who came over. It’s not like I hated the calendar because of some sort of assimilationist desire (it reads like a joke: an eight-year-old already saddled with assimilationist desire). It just seemed distasteful, somehow, which is why it would feel really dishonest of me to hang one up now, in some pointed attempt to signal ... something, I don’t even know what.

I’ve seen this calendar at a white friend’s house. Somehow my immediate impression was that the calendar was purposefully put up—insidiously, even—to create the impression of worldliness, or perhaps tolerance, or perhaps class consciousness. The calendar says, yes, it’s true, I’ve been to a dusty, fish-scented Asian supermarket, and I had a great time, and I love Pocky, and it was so charming, and I love ramen, and look at this cool souvenir.

I’ve also seen this calendar at an Asian-American friend’s house. And in that case, it still reads as performative to me—at once a display of nostalgia, and a claim to authenticity.

Then again, it’s just a free calendar, so why not hang it up? There’s no reason not to. I recognize that this cynical and overwrought over-significance that I am ascribing to this calendar is exactly what I don’t want to happen to me. I don’t want to believe that I could be an anthropological subject, capable of being known just by studying the objects I own. But that’s precisely what I do whenever I encounter this calendar, claiming that I know something about a person just because they’ve decided to display this calendar. I think of the calendar as an identifier, as representing an entire narrative. But that’s certainly not fair or accurate.

I think of this calendar in the same way that I think about my mother’s cooking.

I am expected to revere my mother’s cooking, to try to imitate it but inevitably I always fall short. That, in itself, isn’t so notable. Almost everyone has fond memories of their mother’s cooking, but for me, because I am a child of immigrants, and because that distinction holds so much cultural weight, I am expected to not only miss it, but to long for it, to feel this deep severance from the motherland that it represents. And of course, I recognize that the continuing production and reproduction of colonial trauma does indeed create deep psychic wounds, deep displacements. But that isn’t all that should define me. Still, this relationship with my mother’s cooking, which may or may not be real, has become so common that it becomes assumed. Assumed to the point where, I’m not sure if I do feel homesick, or if these narratives are so embedded in me that I only feel homesick because it makes sense that I would.

In elementary school, I was never made fun of for bringing Chinese food for lunch. And yet, I can locate that narrative so easily within me.