# Index

An ecology of objects / sprites: 

A curtain of plain muslin cloth,  
a hand-carved wooden bowl,  
a ceramic plate glazed blue by a friend,  
two hands open the fruit to reveal the seeds, turning towards us—  
a sword, a shield,  

a piece of sea-glass, a business card,  
a bottle cap,  
a foreign coin.  
This analog of flowers—  

This small wooden box constructed by hands of such love and deservedness,  
a circular mirror,  
this shriveled leaf,  
a paper fan,  
tangled roots,  
forked branches,  
deer with horns of forked branches.  

Unordered list—ornamentation, semblance of flourish, a library of possible symbols with no discoverable reference

Conjugate me, you fool, make me known and know what to do with me. I am floating in a river or a lake, not quite sure which but it certainly feels like I am being taken somewhere by the current, but it is vast, and of unknown shape.

Is this what they call a sea? An ocean? I wait for that flash of recognition. My god, there must be more flashes on the horizon, waiting to charge across the landscape with the vigor of a thunderclap, waiting to envelop me.

Correspondence with you feels so done in vain. A life is nothing more than a life, magic, perhaps, but no more than that. And the double glass doors, they swing intermittently, every few seconds people walk in and out of the building. The doors swing discordantly, one and then the other, and then the first door opens again before the other door has a chance to close. If only I could see past that door, even just a little bit, if only I could see anything, future and past, ostensibly mine, but not just mine, shared with everyone around me, but not certain, never certain.