# Precision

I want to present to you a model for interiority:

She opened the window and let the breeze come in, and only then became acutely aware of how stuffy the air inside the room had been. This breeze from the outside smelled of dew, and was fresher than anything she could have imagined. Her books were stacked neatly on the floor, arranged by size and with their spines pressed against the wall, so as to hide their varying colors. Her bed was made, the duvet folded in half and then in half again. Her face was toned and moisturized. She connected her bluetooth headphones and started playing a podcast. She felt ready.

> *I wonder what you are doing today? Today I had a flash of recognition, during a moment in which I thought I was breaking new ground, only to find well-trodden soil, a path already carved out by others. I merely tripped over a pothole and called that a discovery. Progress.*

She left her house, the door auto-locking behind her. As she walked, she thought about how she would describe the sky to you, its color, its thinness, its mood, but she falls short of thinking of any actual words. Her favorite part of the sky is the part that lies most oblique, that touches the treetops on the horizon.

> *I can’t believe you’re the one that’s making me feel this way. It’s hard to even say out loud. I want you to go and I want you to stay. Its like the feeling I get when I listen to an old favorite song, a song that I’ve heard too often.*

She remembers the day she was covered in dust, that day you took her back to the river. The wet mulch under her bare feet, the slight sting of stepping on broken twigs and pieces of bark.

> *Take me back, back to the view outside my window, back to the scrapes on my forearms from climbing stone walls, the tannins in my mouth and the lactic acid in my legs. On those nights, shadows didn’t exist and nothing felt obscured.*

She has the same goals every summer, the same aspirations of changing herself. This feeling she has towards herself ... it’s like an overexposed photo, the streams of daylight overreaching past the bounds of foliage. Even when sitting in the shade of trees, the sun feels too bright.

> *I can’t believe that you’re not me, that I’m not you.*