# Lyric

I paused and bent down to tie my shoe. I was on a walk with you, and we were talking about why pop songs and their lyrics could get away with being so vacant and boring on paper, yet still have so much emotional resonance.

You took that moment to make your point:

“I think it’s because the voice is more than the words being sung. There’s so much more information encoded in a song than just what’s being conveyed through lyricism.” At this point, I got up, and we continued down the hill. “And encoding it in ways that we aren’t exactly conscious of. It’s more like, absorbed. We feel these things rather than hearing them. But we are always listening. The way that a singer pronounces the words, the prosody, the shape of their mouth, the timbre of their voice, the instrumentation, the reverb, the harmonies, the frequencies ... And we absorb it all like a sponge.”

We reached a crosswalk and stopped. You fell silent, the moment overtaken by the rumbling and screeching of cars. When the light turned red and we crossed the street, you turned towards me again.

“Like, there are probably a thousand different ways to say ‘I love you,’ just like there are a thousand different ways to write a love song.” You paused again, drawing in a deep breath. “I sometimes wonder, you know how the vast majority of songs are about love? Is that proof of its singular importance in life? Like, is love really all there is? Is that it? Love and the various pains that orbit around it?”

For example,

> we’re reading books, we’re drinking coffee  
> I’m looking at you, you’re looking through me.  
> I would wait for you all summer  
> long and  
> you would turn me away  

> *—Chumped,* “Hot 97 Summer Jam”

Or,

> got me doing all this stupid shit,  
> you fuck me up like this,  
> secretly I’m kind of into it  
> though

> *—Charli XCX,* “Out of My Head”

And also,

> I love you, I’m sorry, I’m sorry, I love you 

> *—Carly Rae Jepsen,* “Your Type”

I had been silent for the most part. I didn’t really have much to contribute, could barely even relate. I don’t really listen to lyrics. I think I just have bad auditory processing skills. I won’t know what someone is singing unless I go through the extra step of looking up the lyrics. But I don’t think this prohibits my capacity to be moved by the song. Maybe you don’t even need lyrics to write a love song. Guitars can wail in sorrow, too. I was about to say as much, when, interjecting through the silence again, you said,

“I’ve been trying to write this story. But I still don’t really know where to start. All I have is a vague idea of how I want people to feel when they read it. But I keep getting caught up trying to inject all this deeper, hidden meaning into it, before I can even get started. I don’t know what to do. Maybe affect is something that has to just happen on its own. It feels kinda disingenuous trying to force it. Honestly, all I really want is to write something that will impress people.”

By this point I had completely forgotten my train of thought. But we were like this, had always been like this, at least when we were together. Our conversations always took these random right angles, our thoughts like jumbled up beads that didn’t really go together, like a child’s summer camp friendship bracelet. All I could say in response was, “I love reading things that impress me.”

Anyone who denies that they’re trying to impress other people is probably lying. There is no writing besides writing for the ‘wrong reasons.’ There is no writing purely for the love of the craft. There are no stories without ulterior motives.