# Aspiration

I’m constantly reaching out and attempting to feel with all ten of my fingers the warmth of the lake gently lapping. I’m laying face down at the edge of the dock and stretching. I’m feeling increasingly desperate. I feel like a walk in the park. Easy, a slippage.

It’s like this—you are in New York City for the summer, and you are riding the train, as you do almost everyday, commuting between Brooklyn and Manhattan. You spot someone who looks familiar. You don’t know them personally, exactly, but you’re pretty sure you follow them on Instagram. Its this East Asian IG baddie, sporting a bowl cut/mullet and these huge gold hoop earrings, as well as a gold Buddha necklace that’s framed by their cropped white tank top and their reclaimed houndstooth culottes. They look good, really good. Asian femmes in NYC are probably the best dressed demographic on the entire planet. You see people like this almost every day, whether in person or on your phone, and you don’t want to feel like you’re categorizing them, because that feels shitty, but you do it anyways. These people, whose IG stories are the perfect mix of vulnerability, fragility, and indignation, you want to be like them so badly, to have that kind of self-assured insecurity. You think if you were like them, you might have some semblance of control. But it is precisely this desire that makes you want to escape, somehow, maybe by getting a normal haircut and wearing normal clothing. But that’s not really an escape. That’s just called being normcore, which is a whole other level of disingenuousness.