# Fire Island

This past summer, my friends were kind enough to invite me to participate in an artist residency they were doing on Fire Island. It was my first time on the island. I was surprised to learn that it was also a national park. All I had known about it was its place in gay culture and history.

I felt so funny on the ferry ride to the island. Looking around, I took stock of the colors around me. Most everyone was wearing some combination of red, white, blue, beige, and pink. For almost the entire twenty minute boat ride, I discreetly watched as the older white gay man sitting in front of me played Candy Crush on his phone. At the same time, he was talking to his partner who looked like a slight variation of him. I was also trying to get the attention of their dog, this mid-sized, honey-blond dog that was panting on the floor beneath them. There were many mid-sized, honey-blond dogs on the boat. I felt a certain level of gratitude and respect for this older generation of gays, but at the same time, they felt so foreign to me, so unrelatable to my own experiences of queerness.

When we landed, I was immediately struck by the architecture. All of the houses on the island, including the house we were staying at, were a strange combination of modernist architecture and weathered cedarwood. I had heard of the houses on Fire Island being described as a model for “queer architecture,” but I wasn’t really sure what was meant by that. The houses were stunning: lots of glass, lots of geometric shapes, surrounded by beach flora. But still so overtly modernist, which seemed antithetical to my own conception of queerness.

But defining queerness is antithetical to its spirit. And even the premise that definition is possible and desirable assumes that queerness even has some conglomerated “spirit.” Queerness is a series of self-negations, of refusals, of waywardness, of denials. Queerness can only exist in comparison to an adherence to some kind of systematic oppression. So then, what to make of this consolidation of queer images? These images that are subsumed by the mainstream—at what point do they cease to be queer? Consider the legalization of gay marriage—at first, it seemed like a victory. But then it became clear that it also signaled an investment in the propaganda of the nuclear familial unit. A way to construct a family that remains safely legible, a mere variation of a norm.

When I got settled into the house, I was determined not to feel out of place. I had strategies for that—there were certain moments, when there wasn’t much to do, or I didn’t feel like talking, that I would take a book and go onto the roof to read.

Lying on the roof, I felt protected. I knew my body could be of no desire here, non-white and with no meat on my bones. In photos my face happened to be covered from view. But after a while I was surprised by the fact that I feel secure in this non-desirability, this non-desirability that actually affords a type of non-visibility. At the same time I felt queerer than most on this island. The microagressions pile up more quickly than usual, and each one I feel I should swallow because I am here, staying and eating for free, by the good graces of my white queer friends, who I love dearly, but even so, the condition of whiteness knows no bounds. It is inescapable and delineates a territory of comfort. I actually feel even more othered here than back in the city, in supposed straight society, in contrast to the promise of this island as queertopia, culture and architecture both supposedly free from normativity.

Honestly, none of it bothers me too much. Overall it’s funny, the way Fire Island matches almost exactly my preconceptions of it. The thing I love the most here is my phone, which I use to text my friend. She makes me laugh. In second place are the friends who brought me here, twinks, white, but, also queerer than most here, not as ensnared by the assimilationist trap of body-fascist gay masculinity. They were told by an old queen, that if this was Palm Springs, they would be fetuses. Even twinkier than twinks.